The side-mounted ISG can be realized using the conventional
generator of today’s vehicle. With the addition of position
sensors and a three-phase inverter, the generator can be operated
as a motor and can provide enough torque through the belt to
the combustion engine to perform a fast and quiet restart for a
warmed-up engine. On smaller engines, it is possible to cold
crank the engine, eliminating the conventional starter. Further
improvements in the generator and power electronics technology will increase the system efficiency, the power generation,
and the cranking torque to fulfill future requirements and also
allow the cold cranking of larger engines. The benefits of this
system are: 1) low cost; 2) simple implementation; 3) minimal
changes in the electrical system; and 4) use of the present beltdriven machine. The electronic system consists of a three-phase
MOSFET bridge inverter with the associated gate drives and
control electronics. Although the normal generation current is
much lower, the power electronics need to be designed for
higher starting currents. The packaging and the cooling of the
devices need special consideration.
The Saturn Vue hybrid vehicle by General Motors is a typical
example of a belt-driven starter–generator system. Saturn Vue’s
hybrid system reduces fuel consumption by:
• shutting off the engine when the vehicle is stopped to
minimize idling;
• restarting the engine promptly when the brake pedal is
released;
• enabling early fuel shutoff during vehicle deceleration;
• capturing vehicle kinetic energy during deceleration
(regenerative braking) to charge an advanced nickel-metal
hydride battery;
• performing intelligent battery charging when it is most
efficient.
III. PHEVS
PHEVs have been considered as a significant advancement
of the hybrid vehicle technology in both the industry and the
academia [7] and even by various government agencies around
the world. PHEVs have a battery pack of high energy density
that can be externally charged and, hence, can run solely on
electric power for a range longer than regular HEVs, resulting
in a better MPG [8]–[12]. The battery pack can be recharged
by a neighborhood ac outlet charger or in the garage. PHEVs
improve the utilization of utility power because the charging of
the batteries is done during nighttime.
A representative architecture of a plug-in parallel hybrid vehicle architecture is shown in Fig. 5. The conversion of conventional HEVs into PHEVs is being tried as a transient technology
in many companies in order to enhance the efficiency of HEVs.
Moreover, auto manufacturers are considering and preparing
for the introduction of PHEVs into the commercial market. The
conversion is achieved either by adding a high-energy battery
pack or by replacing the existing battery pack of HEVs in order
to extend the all-electric range. In either case, the high-energy
battery pack must be able to store enough electrical energy from
external charging as well as from regenerative braking and must
be able to supply the stored electrical energy to a traction motor
system. AC outlet charging should inevitably need a battery
charger composed of an ac–dc converter with power factor
correction (PFC) and a programmable digital controller with
a proper voltage–current profile for high-energy battery packs.
A bidirectional dc–dc converter and charge–discharge profile is
also necessary so as to transfer energy between the battery and
the traction motor system.
To make PHEVs available to consumers, there are several
issues to be addressed. For example, the stability of utility
power with regard to using a great number of high-power
battery chargers with PFC at the same time and the choice,
safety, thermal management, and cell-balancing of high-energy
batteries such as NiMH and lithium batteries for automotive
applications are some of the important issues [13]–[29].